README.md, before:

# Cipher Simulators

This repository contains simple implementations of Caesar, Vigenere and toy Enigma ciphers in three languages:

- **Python**: located in `py/`
- **C**: located in `c/`
- **NASM assembly**: located in `asm/`

## Building and Running

### Python
Run the scripts directly with Python 3:
```bash
python3 py/caesar.py 3 "HELLO"
python3 py/vigenere.py KEY "HELLO WORLD"
python3 py/enigma.py HELLO
```

### C
Compile each program with a C compiler such as GCC:
```bash
gcc c/caesar.c -o c/caesar
gcc c/vigenere.c -o c/vigenere
gcc c/enigma.c -o c/enigma
```
Then run them:
```bash
./c/caesar 3 HELLO
./c/vigenere KEY "HELLO WORLD"
./c/enigma HELLO
```

### Assembly
Assemble with NASM and link with GCC:
```bash
nasm -f elf64 asm/caesar.asm -o asm/caesar.o
gcc asm/caesar.o -no-pie -lc -o asm/caesar

nasm -f elf64 asm/vigenere.asm -o asm/vigenere.o
gcc asm/vigenere.o -no-pie -lc -o asm/vigenere

nasm -f elf64 asm/enigma.asm -o asm/enigma.o
gcc asm/enigma.o -no-pie -lc -o asm/enigma
```
Run the executables:
```bash
./asm/caesar
./asm/vigenere
./asm/enigma
```

Commit message:

Improve cipher examples and add Makefile

README.md, after:

# Cipher Simulators

This repository contains simple implementations of Caesar, Vigenere and toy Enigma ciphers in three languages. These examples are for educational or demonstration purposes only and should not be used for real security:

- **Python**: located in `py/`
- **C**: located in `c/`
- **NASM assembly**: located in `asm/`

## Building and Running

You can build everything at once using the included `Makefile`:

```bash
make
```

This produces executables for the C and NASM versions in their respective
directories. You can also compile and run each language individually as shown
below.

### Python
Run the scripts directly with Python 3:
```bash
python3 py/caesar.py 3 "HELLO"
python3 py/vigenere.py KEY "HELLO WORLD"
python3 py/enigma.py HELLO
```

### C
Compile each program with a C compiler such as GCC:
```bash
gcc c/caesar.c -o c/caesar
gcc c/vigenere.c -o c/vigenere
gcc c/enigma.c -o c/enigma
```
Then run them:
```bash
./c/caesar 3 HELLO
./c/vigenere KEY "HELLO WORLD"
./c/enigma HELLO
```

### Assembly
Assemble with NASM and link with GCC:
```bash
nasm -f elf64 asm/caesar.asm -o asm/caesar.o
gcc asm/caesar.o -no-pie -lc -o asm/caesar

nasm -f elf64 asm/vigenere.asm -o asm/vigenere.o
gcc asm/vigenere.o -no-pie -lc -o asm/vigenere

nasm -f elf64 asm/enigma.asm -o asm/enigma.o
gcc asm/enigma.o -no-pie -lc -o asm/enigma
```
Run the executables:
```bash
./asm/caesar
./asm/vigenere
./asm/enigma
```
